What is D3
its open source JS library.
this library may be use visual representations of data.
This means you can create DOM elements using your data.
This DOM elements can be simple HTML elements like buttons, headings, paragraphs and so on,
 other may include charts, graphs as well.

D3 makes use of HTML, CSS and SVG to create those representations.

As you know these are technologies of web, so anything you can create using 
D3 can be viewed on any modern browser, like Chrome, Safari, IE, Firefox

Here i'll show you some fundamental concepts


1. Selection and manipulation
We need to include d3 script to our index.html

Using d3 we can select DOM elements using css selectors
d3 provides us two methods
d3.select()  - selects first element that matches the criteria
d3.selectAll() - get all elements

d3.select('h1');
if there is no h1 tag in html, it will return empty selection

using d3 we can manipulate elements as well. we can update their style, values or bind data with them

for example we can apply a style to h1 tag

d3.select('h1').style('color','red');
in d3 we can chain methods so that it helps keep code clean an readable

.attr('class','heading');
.text('Custom text');

We can append DOM elements
d3.select('body').append('p').text('Appended paragraph')

append more paragraphs

select all the paragraphs, and change their styles


3. Data loading and binding

Using d3 we can map data to our elements.
Mainly we can append, update and do other manipulations using our data set.

for ex we have this data set. we want to create paragraphs for each element of the array.
<code>
you can see 5 paragraphs was appended to the DOM.
Each of them represents data item from our set
we can also update the text of our paragraphs to show 
the data of elements by passing a function instead of string.

4. Creating a simple bar chart
In HTML we have svg tag
<code>

5. Creating labels







There are many resources available online.
The official documentation of D3 is very helpful in this regard
There is also many materials available on different platforms like medium.


